How to provision an ec2 instance on the aws cloudplatform?
ec2 instance is nothing but a computer (virtual computer) that is provisioned on the aws cloudplatform, that we can use for running the software application. ec2 stands for elastic cloud compute

upon provisioning an ec2 instance, inorder to access it, we should connect it to the network (public). this means before creating/provisioning the ec2 instance we need to setup/create network, so that we can attach the ec2 instance to the network and make it accessible.
	
But when we create an aws cloud account, the aws cloudplatform will setup an default vpc & subnet networks across all the regions of the account. So we can make use of the default network while creating ec2 instance instead of settingup new network.
	
To provision the ec2 instance:
1. launch and login into the aws cloud console.
2. from top-right corner choose a region where we want to provision the ec2 instance (for eg.. ap-south-1)	
3. goto the services > compute > ec2
4. click on launch instance to begin provisioning the ec2

Here we need to provide the details of the ec2 instance we want to provision.
note: in a aws free-tier account, only 720 hours per month of an ec2 instance of t2.micro with ami: linux is free for usage.
	
1. provide the instance name, helps us in identifying the machine and its purpose.
2. choose the AMI (amazon machine image). An AMI is pre-backed operating system image provided by aws cloudplatform. here we can choose the AMI we want to use in provisioning the ec2 instance.
		2.1 Ubuntu Family
		2.2 24.04 LTS
3. choose the shape of the machine (Instance type): t2.micro (only this instance type is qualified for free-tier)
4. click on create keypair to generate SSH keypair for accessing the ec2 instance
	1. enter the keypair name
	2. choose the algorithm (RSA)
	3. choose the keypair type (.pem)
	create
This will allow us to download the keypair.
upon downloading the .pem file we should save under $USER_HOME/.ssh directory (mandatory)
note: if we loose the keypair (.pem file), there is no way to re-download/recover it.
	
5. choose the keypair we created above in the dropdown list, so the aws will provision the ec2 instance by registering the public key as authorized_keys to the linux machine

6. leave the default options for network settings
7. leave the default storage options
click on launch instance

How to access the ec2 instance ?
1. goto ec2 instance page
2. click on the ec2 instance out of the list of instances we have on our account
3. pick the public ip address of the ec2 instance from the details

Windows:
1. goto gitbash
Linux/Ubuntu:
by default ssh client utility is installed and available for usage, so goto terminal

before ssh into the ec2 instance using the .pem file we should change the permissions incase of linux.
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/keypair.pem

enter the below command from the gitbash or terminal to connect to the ec2 instance:
ssh -i pathToPemFile ubuntu@publicipec2
	








































	