Docker, Kuberntes and Jenkins
duration: 45 working days
Fee: 5k

Timings:-
Monday - Friday = 8:15 am - 9:15 am
Saturday = 8:15 am - 10:00 am
Sunday = 9:30 am - 11:00 am / 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm

Weekly basis: live classroom notes will be shared to the students
no recordings, no vidoes and no facebook downloads

pre-requisite:-
1. 
	java appliation
	and web application
	execution knowledge
application server (tomcat)
2. linux basic knowledge
3. optionally: good to have shellscripting knowledge
4. application protocols like http knowledge is good to have
5. basic concepts of networking
	ip address
	cidr
	how does computers communicate over the networks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
docker

What is virtualization?
To understand docker first let us explore what is virtualization, why do we need it?
The I.T infrastructure cost in developing and deliverying the software applications are quite high. for eg.. in an organization they can be multiple software applications being developed in parallely
in order to certify these applications and delivery we need qa environment, each project has to be dedicated with a computer/machine to test and certify the application because, why? because

1. even though an application/project requires only few days/months of time for testing, still the machine has to dedicated to the project since re-setup of the environment and reconfiguring the software for running the project on that machine takes lot of time

2. even though the software application uses few system resources in running on the computer we cannot still reuse the same system in running other application for testing since a computer can be used for running one environment only

How to solve the above problem?
To address the above problems in running multiple parallel isolated environments on a single computer virtualization has been introduced


tech.sriman@gmail.com
durgasoftonlinetraining@gmail.com

































































































