Ansible Vault
-------------
In playbook or inventory files we write configuration information pertaining to software installations or fleet server in-terms of variable declarations holding confidential information, and execute them to achieve the final system state of the Machines. 
For eg.. we might declare a database server credentials or an application server administrative credentials etc as part of playbook or inventory file. If these files are kept on disk or repository in a plain/text format, anyone who has access to these files will be able to see the credentials and gain the access to the servers/fleet (including production). It is a big security breach.
	
Ansible has addressed this problem by providing ansible vault. Ansible Vault is an cli using which we can encrypt the playbooks/inventoryfiles using AES256 encryption algorithm and keep them on Filesystem or in repository.	
No one can read the contents of the playbook/inventory files once encrypted thus making them complete secured.
	
How to work with ansible vault?
#1. how to create an encrypted playbook?
ansible-vault create playbook.yml
It opens an text editor allowing you to write an playbook/inventory file/vars_files once we save and close the editor,it asks for password, using which, the ansible-vault encrypts the contents and stores the encrypted only on the FileSystem.
	
#2. how to view the contents of an encrypted file?
ansible-vault view playbook.yml
it prompts for the password using which we encrypted earlier and decrypts the filecontents and will display in a editor

#3. how to encrypt an existing playbook?
ansible-vault encrypt playbook.yml
it prompts for the password, encrypts and saves the contents on the disk

#4. How to run an encrypted playbook or use vars_files/inventory file?
There are 2 ways we execute

[during development]
1. decrypt the contents of these files into plain/text format and execute
Everytime to execute decrypt the contents of the files, execute it and post complete again encrypt it
ansible-vault decrypt playbook.yml
prompts for password and generates plain/text files

[production environments]
2. we can directly execute encrypted playbooks itself using the below command
ansible-playbook -i inventoryFile --ask-vault-pass playbook.yml
before the playbook execution begins the ansible-playbook cli ask for password and decrypts in-memory using ansible-vault and executes the playbook.
There is a problem with above approach, during the playbook execution ansible-playbook cli asks for password which is interactive execution, so that people should be available in-person to supply the password

To overcome the above problem 
1. create an password file with password to decrypt the contents of the playbook
2. keep that preferrably within the same location of playbook
3. give file permissions as 0600 
	
now while running the playbook supply the password file as an input as shown below
ansible-playbook -i inventoryFile --vault-password-file=passwordFile playbook.yml


#5. How to edit an encrypted playbook?
ansible-vault edit playbook.yml
prompts for password and opens the playbook in an editor allowing us to modify

#6. How to change the password of an existing playbook?
ansible-vault rekey playbook.yml
prompts for existing password, once validated ask for new password with which you want to encrypt
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Handlers
Jinja2 Templates
Roles
Playbook execution strategies

Ansible Handlers
-----------------
























































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	