Amazon Web Services Cloud Platform
----------------------------------
1. networking
	1.1 vpc
	1.2 subnet
	1.3 internet gateway
	1.4 security groups
	1.5 nacl rules

2. compute
	2.1 ec2
	2.2 load balancer

3. database domain
	3.1 mysql server
	
4. i am
	users
	groups
	policies
	roles
	
5. Storage domain
	S3
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Amazon Web Services cloud platform
What is Cloud?

upon building an application to make the application accessible to the world we need to host the application. 
Hosting: is the process of deploying or running the application, so that it becomes accessible to the people around the world is called "Hosting" an application

There are many ways we can host an application
#1. In-house hosting
Within our own premises we are going to run the application (on-premise). In order to run the application on on-premise environment we nee the below.
	1. computer/machine with high-end computing configuration to handle the loads of traffic from the users, a backup computer
	2. high-speed networking with gigabit routers to ensure there is no latency
	3. firewalls and other networking devices to secure our machines
	4. A dedicated high-speed internet line and backup line for rollover incase of failure
	5. An air-conditioned room to run our hardware machines
	6. 24X7 power backup is required
	
on top of the above infrastructure requirements we need 
	7. system administrators to setup and configure the machines
	8. network engineers to take care of setting up the network and configure the networking devices and monitor 
	9. we need support engineers to monitor our application and mange the application
on top of it 
	10. we need to procure software licenses that are required for running our application
	11. install and configure these softwares
	12. thereafter we need to run the application
	
By looking at the above process it looks like running an application in-house is a time taking job and the amount of investment we need to put in procuring the infrastructure and maintainance cost involved in maintaining the infra/team of people to manage is quite high	
looks like only an enterprises who are doing the business at a large-scale can only efford in running their applications on on-premise/inhouse hosting environment.
		
#2 Hosting providers
To overcome the above problem in hosting an application to the public, the shared hosting providers came into picture.
The shared the computing capacity of a machine by allowing multiple customers to use the same computer in a controlled manner, there by which we can effectively bring down the cost of running the applications.
		
dis-advantages:-
	1. Limited computing capacity is allowed for hosting an application
	2. No private network of computers to run an application isolated
	3. Not secured since the same physical machine is shared by multiple customers
	4. Not suitable for running enterprise applications that requires more computing capacity in running the applications
	
#3 Datacenters
Instead of a business by themself hosting and managing the infrastructure in-house or going through an hosting provider who doesnt provide machines dedicatedly, we can goto Datacenters

The datacenters are big organizations who trade computing capacity to the businesses. The people pre-procure infrastructure runs out of an dedicated buildings by installing/networking and configuring arrays of computers.
		
		
		

















	


















	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
