1. File Management
Filesystem is a technic or a mechanism that allows us to store, manage and organize the data on the permanent storage device (Harddisk) of the computer. They allow us to store the data permanently on the storage device of the computer interms of Files and Folders

What is a File?
Internals:
File is an datastructure in which operating system stores the address locations of the data where it has been stored on the harddisk of the computer. In addition to this the operating system captures few more attributes of information pertaining to the data as well like
1. Filename
2. created date
3. modified date
4. owner
etc

Inorder to access the data that we haved stored on the harddisk of the computer, we need to ask the operating system to fetch the data from the address locations where it is stored, since the address locations of the data is stored within the File we can always ask the operating system to refer these addresses stored in the File in fetching and returning the data

Even though the data is not directly stored within the File, rather file contains address locations where the data is stored, by the way we interact with operating system in asking him to store or fetch the data from the file makes us thing actually the data is stored within the File itself.
	
So from logical definition:
File is an data structure or physical memory location within the harddisk of the computer in which the data is being stored and accessed.
	

How to create an file on the filesystem of the computer?
each linux user has their own home directory location for which he has permissions in creating/accessing the files/folders.
so we need to navigate to the user home directory inorder to create a file.
cd = takes you to the user home directory

touch filename
touch is the command used for creating an empty file with no data inside it under the current working directory in which we are in.
	
1. How to change to the user home directory?
cd = change directory

2. How to see in which directory we are in?
pwd = print working directory

3. how to see the files and folders in a directory?
ls = list files and folders under the current working directory


4. How to print an message on to the terminal window or console?
echo "message"
echo is an bash command used for printing or writing an message onto the terminal

for eg.. echo "good morning" > prints good morning message onto the terminal.
	
	
5. How to create an File with data being stored inside it?
every linux command when we execute will produce some output, the output that is generated by the program/command will be written directly onto the console (STDOUT). similarly a program/command takes the input data from the keyboard which is referred to as STDIN.
	
Incase if we want to change the destination to which the program has to write the output other than STDOUT or change the source from which it takes the input other than STDIN then we need to use redirection operations in linux bash which are > and < 
	
	> = redirection operator for redirecting the output
	< = redirection operator for redirecting the input
	
echo "good morning"	 = writes the "good morning" message directly onto the STDOUT, incase if we wish to redirect the output instead of to STDOUT to an File we can use > operator here

echo "good morning" > greetings.txt

now greetings.txt is a file, that is created with data inside it.
	
6. how to see the contents or the data stored inside the file?
cat filename
cat command is used for displaying the contents of a file

cat greetings.txt










































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


