enterprise application has been broken down into multiple smaller microservices
- built out of their own source code project
- has an separate repository
- individual teams
- build independently
- produces an deployable artifact
- runs on an isolated environment (independently deployable)

advantages:-
1. as there are individual teams working independently on their own source code repositories in building their microservices, they can place their features and release them independent of others
2. patching and upgradation will not effect the whole system
3. vertical scaling can be achieved
4. truely supports ci/cd
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kubernetes (k8s)
kubernetes is an container cluster manager which takes care of distribute the containerized applications on a network of computers. It takes care scheduling, monitoring and scaling up the containerized applications on a network of computers


when we are working on containerized applications, there are lot of problems in managing these containers manually
1. distributing the containerized applications on a network computers is difficult
2. keeping track of nodes/machines on the network, and identifying which containers are scheduled on which nodes of the network is quite difficult
3. patching/upgradation is very difficult, we need to ssh onto each node on the cluster to identify the respective application is running on which node and derive a strategy to replace older version to new version
while patching or upgradation, we need to keep track of which nodes we have verified and upgraded and what are the remaining nodes to verify
4. monitoring these containers distributed on the network cluster is very difficult
5. identifying and replacing/restarting the crashed containers is highly difficult
6. keeping track of resource capacity/usage occupied by the nodes and migrating/moving the containers to the different nodes manually is a tedious job
7. scaling up the application on the network cluster is difficult

To overcome the above problems/difficulties in managing the containerized applications on a network cluster kubernetes has been introduced

kubernetes is a container cluster manager, that takes care of scheduling, monitor and running containers on a computer network 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Architecture of Kubernetes (k8s)





























































































































