1. nacl rules
nacl is a firewall that is setup at the subnet level and is used for controlling or enforcing the traffic restrictions on the resources of a subnet
nacl rules are stateless which means a request and response will be treated differently for each ingress rule to allow response back from the resource to external network we need to add egress rule also

2. security groups
we can enforce traffic restrictions at the resource level rather than at subnet level using security groups
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
compute domain
--------------
1. ec2 
its a machine that is provisioned and managed by the aws cloud platform on their infrastructure.
advantage:
1. all the lifecycle operations on the instance are taken care by aws
2. we can take the advantage of aws network and security
	
inorder to create an ec2 instance we need to pass several inputs to the aws cloud platform asking to provision the instance as per our requiement as below
1. goto aws ec2 dashboard and choose launch instances
2. choose the ami
ami = amazon machine image 	
which is an pre-built image that comprises of operating system software, utility programs and few other configurations that makes the machine usable
during the time of provisioning the ec2 instance we need choose the ami with which the instance should be provisioned so that aws will create the ec2 instance with that ami.
	
There are 4 different types of amis are available
1. amazon pre-built AMI
2. third-party organizations / partner AMIs associated amazon
3. community built AMIs which are published by individual or organization but not associated with amazon
4. user ami = individual users can create their own amis can place at account level for reuse

Not all the AMI are open source, most of them are chargeable and should refer to pricing before using them
we choose show free-tier checkbox to view only free AMIs available

#3. select the shape 
the amazon has pre-based shapes of the machines with fixed cpu, ram and storage which can be choosen for creating the ec2 instance. if not we can customize the machine shape with which we can provision
t2.micro = free rest of all the shapes are chargeable

#4. choose the networking
	1. pick the vpc
	2. subnet
	3. enable public ip
and leave rest of the options to the default and click on next

#5. storage
the default storage available is 8gb if we want to we can increase

#6. add tags
identifiable key value pairs

#7. security group
we want the machine to ssh from the external network so add security group with rule as 
SSH 22 0.0.0.0/0 allow

#8. generate ssh key pair (.pem)
The .pem contains both public/private key which can be used for accessing the machine

#9. review and click on finish to launch the instance


if we want to use the ec2 instance from external network place it in public subnet only.
The database has to kept under private subnet

if your application is backed by an lbr then place
	1. ec2 in private subnet
	2. rds in private subnet
	3. lbr on public subnet
	4. to install and configure the application us jumpbox on public subnet
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The aws by default generates ".pem" file which contains both public/private keys and can be used in linux based environments directly
if we want to ssh using putty then we need ".pub" and ".ppk" files seperately, then we need to use puttygen for generating public/private keys from given pem file.
	
	


















































	



















